		
			The Planar Sphere Mod
			=====================

Author: Theodor from Greece
E-mail: ttsovilis@yahoo.com

First of all I suggest you read the 'ReadME' file that goes with the mod and follow the
instructions given there.

After Teos appears,he has proposal for you.He asks you to make a magic school in your
Planar Sphere.If you accept that,you must sign a contract and become an unofficial membeer
of the Cowled Wizards.After that the Planar Sphere will be filled with apprentices and tutors.
You can talk to them,most of them will respond to you and a few have small quest for you.
Also check on every container in the Sphere for new spells scrolls.Some of them are... toasty!

1. MAP ROOM
   In the room with the map of the town there are 3 apprentices that did something wrong and
   your map is on fire.They are sorry and promice to fix it.

2. CONTAINER ROOM
   In the room at the left from the Map Room there is tutor with 2 apprentices.Talk to the tutor
   and he tells you he makes enchanted ewapons.He also gives you instructions on how to do that
   and a book with specific details.

3. SOLAR KNIGHT ROOM
   In the room where the Solar Knights were there are many people,Teos,tutors,an examiner,a
   Cowled Enforcerer and a Rakasha. Talk to them to get informations or quests.

4. TUTOR-MAGIC MISILES
   One of the Tutors aks you for a scroll of Magic Misiles for his class.Get him one for 
   10.000xp.

5. RAKASHA
   Talk to the Rakasha.He has a shop and an Inn for you.He has great items in low prices and buy
   your items in very good prices. He has also some great scrolls. 
   Also if you try to steal from him he does nothing,no matter if you succeed or not. Probably
   that is a small bug of the mode,but it is a very helping one!!!

6. COWLED ENFORSERER
   Talk to the Cowled Enforserrer.He says he is there to ensure the safety of the tutors and 
   students. He asks you to seek and destroy a spy od the Red Wizards named Inchantra. She is in
   the Sphere.Strang he does not want her alive,only dead will be sufficient!
   Look for her in the Sphere and you will find her in the room where the Beholdrer was.She attacks
   you on sight.Kill for some good xp (8000) and go back to the Enforserer. He is happy and...
   he reveals his identity.He is the true spy,thanks you for killing Inchantra before she reveals
   him and attacks you.Kill him for 8000xp and some items.

7. EXAMINER
   Talk to the examiner at the top of the Solar Knights room. He asks you to attend to the exams
   that are going to take place in a moment. Agree to go and you teleported to the first room of
   the Sphere.There are 4 apprentices. Talk to each one of them to begins his test. Each one of
   thems prologues what spell he will do and proceeds. All 4 of them will make mistake and die.
   The last one summons a Demon that attacks you. Kill it for 12000xp. Talk again to the Examiner
   and tell him the results.

8. DEMON ROOM
   Go to the room above the main room with all the tutors. There are 2 demons,2 apprentices and
   a teacher wielter.He summons these demonds,binds them and uses them for study and for pets.
   Nothing more to do there,only some funny words you exchange with Wielter.

9. BAATEZU
   Go to the Golem Building room.There you will find a great demon,a Baatezu.He is there with the
   COwled Wizards permission.You can attack him or talk to him.Talk to him and agree to his aspect
   of hell and evil.If you do that he will ask you a favor.He says his powers are binded by
   professor Wielter ask you for a release.To do that you must cast a spell that will steal the
   release spell from Wielter's mind.He gives you a scroll to do that,a scroll that must be used
   near Wielter.If you refuse, he will attack you.Kill him for 16.000xp. Agree to to so,take the
   scroll and go back to the Demon Room to find Wielter. Use the scroll to steal the spell and go
   back to Baatezu. (Don't worry about releasing this demons powers). He takes the spell and asks
   you to kill Wielter to set free his powers.Saying no gets you to fight him. Agree to this evil
   task (He is a demon after all...) Go back to Wielter,and he attacks you on sight.Kill him for
   8000xp,spells and items.Now go back to Baatezu to get your reward: 60.000xp,2 scrolls and a 
   good amullet for evil characters. 
   There is bug there that allows you to talk again and again
   to Baatezu for more XP and items (60000xp each time!!!) Use it!!!!
   Then you can attack the Baatezu to kill him! (I did!)

10.APPRENTICE BECOME SLIME
   After the room with the symbols on the ground you will find a tutor next to an apprentice
   that has become a green slime.Talk to the tutor,who asks for your help to restore the student
   and save him from ... being dismissed. Agree to help and he asks you 2 things, a remove curse
   scroll and a Neclace of Form Stability. Bring him these items to get 20.000xp and 3 scrolls.

11.MELICAMP THE... CHICKEN
   In the room you found and killed Inchantra you will find Melicamp,the wizard apprentice from
   BG 1 that had become a chicken,remember??? Talk to her and she says she is no more student to
   her former master and she is now a Cowled Wizard Apprentice of high grade. She is arrogant and
   want to try a difficult trick.She does so but fails and becomes a chicken once again. She is
   desperate and asks for help.Agree to help her.Go back to the Tutor room and find her tutor.
   Explain him what happend and he suggests he will call her former master,Thalantyr, to get her
   back once again.Go back to Melicamp and then Thalantyr appears,turns back Melicamp and you
   get rewarded with 50.000xp and 2 more scrolls.

12.TEOS LONG QUEST (GREAT!!!)
   In the Tutor Room (the Room od Solar Knights) you will find Teos. Talk to him and he thanks you
   for the school of magic.Also he says about an accident happend not long ago and artifact that
   is missing.He asks you to get back this artifact,that it is a planar key forged by Mystra,the
   goddes of Magic.He tels you to seek a Red Wizard spy at Waukeen's Promenade. Go there and head
   for the Den of the Seven Dales Inn.There you will find a Cowled Wizard. Talk to him and he 
   reveals his identity and goal and summons 6 more Red Wizards to attack you.This is tough fight
   with 7 good mages.But it has great prizes and good XP. You also get the lost artifact and a note
   of orders from Red Wizards. Now head back to Teos. 

13.THE ENTRAPPED SORCERER
   Teos is really mad. He want's to use the artifact and it's power to destroy the Red Wizards and
   their whole island! He teleports you to the Navigation Room in the Sphere and the ritual begins.
   The Cowled wizards cpmplete the ritual and a Sorcerer is freed from inside the artifact and comes
   before you. He asks for the man how freed him and kills Teos and the wizards for no reason. Then
   he talks to you, says he is invisible, sees that you are a child of Bhaal and sends you your soul
   plane as a punishment.

14.THE SOUL PLANE
   In your Soul Plane,you find you and your party trapped in a dream in Candlekeep. The ground shakes
   and very powerful Shadows called Nighmares(9000xp) and Greater NIghmares(18000xp) appear and 
   attack you. Kill as many as you can,but they still keep coming. Go to the entrance of Kandlekeep
   and talk to the exit portal.It says you must face your fear first to leave the plane, asks if you
   are ready.Say yes and Fear appears. He says he hill destroy you and attacks. He is a powerfull
   mage and has some good items. After killing him (30.000xp )talk to portal to go back to the Planar
   Sphere. Then Elminster comes and asks you what happend. He then tells you part of the story and
   teleports you to the Harper Hold to find the Sorcerer and his mistress Mystra, the goddess of Magic.

15.THE HUNT FOR THE SORCERER
   When you reach Harper Hold you find the Sorcerer in frond of the staue of Mystra casting spells.
   Elminster talks and then attacks him, but he falls dead.Then just before the Sorcerer slay you
   Khleben and some mages come and attack him. He kills them all, cast some great spells and then a
   big explosion comes, everything gets dark and you are throuwn away, if you save vs death. If you
   don't you play again the Soul Plane to get teleported with Elminster (so save a lot!) After you
   get up you see Mystra the goddess of Magic laying down wounded and powerless. Go talk to her and
   she mourns about Elminster. Then she gives you the whole story about the Sorcerer and asks for 
   your help. Agree to do so. She points the Goverment Distinct,there you will find the key to turn
   the power against the Sorcerer. Head to the Govement Distinct.

16.THE GOVERMENT DISTINCT
   The area is at war and chaos.There are Pain Elementals everywhere attacking you with powerfull 
   spells and attacks. They cast Symbol Pain, which reduces everybodys dexterity 2 points and causes
   big damage, 50hp, and greater malison and attack you with good damage.Kill them (16.500xp each).
   They also cast protective spells like Stoneskin and improved mantle.   
   I will recommend you to send a summoned creature first,so the Pain Elementals will cast the 
   dexterity reducing speels at them and then attack with your party. Spells will do no damage,
   because they have 100% resist. Only the Lower Resistances spell helps you.
   Also there will be lightinig bolts coming to you from the sky,one for every turn causing damage 
   2-15 hp to the one the hit. In the main square there are 4 Pain elementals, very tough fight.
   In frond of the Counsil building there are 2 Pain Knights and a Night Hag (remember it from 
   Planescape Torment?) Kill them. The Njight Hag is a very powerful mage casting Maze and Entrapment
   at will and as many time as it wish,Wail of the Bunshee and other powerfull spells.Kill it for
   68.000xp, great items and scrolls.

17.THE COUNSIL OF THE SIX BUILDING
   Then enter the Counsil of the Six building.In there you will find 8 spell globes that they cast
   attack spells to your party at will and with no ending. You can not damage or kill these globes!
   The only thing you can do is to go to the end of the room,as close as you can to the wall, near 
   the incarnation of Magic. When you reach the incarnation of Magic it will talk to you. Ask it why
   it helps the Sorcerer and it will attack you. Now you must face 7 mages,7 incarnations one for
   every school of Magic (Alteration,Abjuration,Divination,Necromancy,...etc). Each one will appear
   after the death of the one before.First comes Divination. Every incarnation gives you 5000xp and
   some scrolls. When you kill them all,if you survive you get 40.000xp,scrolls,good items and the 
   key you need. You can go to the exit to talk to the portal. Get inside to teleport back to the
   Harper Hold and find Mystra.
   
18.DEMILICH AND SOLAR ENCOUNTERS
   Talk again to Mystra and she tells you what has to be done. She also tells you that reality has
   changed and there are things only you can see.Then she dies in a big shock.Get out from Harper
   Hold to watch a video where a Demilich is killing innocent people just outside Harper Hold. Attack
   and kill the Demilich (very nasty opponent with great spells) to get good XP,items and the legentary
   Scroll of Kazaa witch transoforms the caster into a Lich gifing him the minus and plus of this
   transformation. Now head back to the Slums. When you enter the area the Sorcerer comes to meet you
   He talks to you and set to destroy you,but just before he attacks,he is being ambushed by the
   Palladins of the Order.He slays them all and leaves you to fight 3 summoned monsters, an Enslaved
   Solar and 2 Grear Demons.This is a fight like no other,but not that tough. Kill them and go to
   the Planar Sphere.

19.THE PLANAR SPHERE REVISITED
   When you enter the Sphere you will see that its map is blank and you must revisit all the rooms
   once again.Also all the items in the containers and all the persons inside the Sphere are gone.
   In every room there are new foes and monsters,so proceed with care.
   When you enter the Sphere Lord AO,an Overgod (a supreme being) comes to you and speaks. He gives
   you some information and 30.000 quest xp for every party member. Now eplore the Sphere. everybody
   is gone,doors are locked and Magic Elementals are everywhere attacking you with great Lightning
   bolts. I suggest you have one of your first line fighters drink a portion or use a scroll of 
   lightning resistance and send him first.

20.SERVANT OF CHAOS
   In the room where the man eating halflings where you will meet a great opponent, the Servant Of 
   Chaos, brough there from his plain. He is angry and unfriendly. He is very tough.Kill him to get
   good XP and his great items. Be aware because his robe, Robes of Chaos is a cursed item.

21.VENCA THE ARCHILICH
   In the room with the symbols on the ground you will find the worst of all opponents, the great
   archilich Venca, the one with no match. He has 2 Modrons with him (Shadow Adamantine Golems). He
   is also angry about being there. He talks to you and you are given an opportunity to explain the
   situation and ask him to join you,but with no luck. Venca sees that you are true but attacks you
   anyway. This foe needs no comments,nor words about its greatness. I suggest you cast everything
   you have to protect,summon everything and.. do some prairs!! Keep the rod of ressurection and some
   Freedom scrolls to your main character because you will need them to bring back the party members.
   The spells he cast are numerous and do great damage,also the Modrons are hell of fighters.Kill 
   Venca to get 500.000xp and some Great Items and Spells. Now go down the stairs and prepare for
   the final act.

22.THE SORCERER
   When you go down the stairs you meet the Sorcerer gathering his powers in the spell globes and
   getting ready for his revenge.He talks to you and gets ready to attack you.Talk him back and ask
   his name before he kills you. He gives you the name 'Melanthium' and some lesson about the Art
   of Magic,its form and nature. Then the Lady of Pain herself appears and tries to attack Melanthium
   but with no luck. She then speaks to you,asks you to help nad gives you instructions on how you
   can trick and beat Melanthium.Do so and the miracle is done.Melanthium is once again tricked and
   his power is again turned against him. You brake the portal key and his powers defeat him but he
   remains alive in a prison portal.The Lady of Pain congratulates you sais you must go in the Prison
   Plain and finish him. Agree to do so. I suggest you pick all the spells needed for fighting great 
   mages and take a rest before you enter.

23.DEFEAT MELANTHIUM
   Go into the Prison Portal to get yourself and party teleported in the Prison Plane of Melanthium.
   He is defeated,very angry but alive.He is getting himself togather to get out of the Prison and
   kill everything and everybody.Talk a little with him and then the fight begin. This is a hell of
   a fight with Melanthium teleporting around casting hell-spells with great speed.After you defeat
   him (If you manage to),you get 1.500.000xp and his items, which are wonderous! Also when he dies
   he passes some of his essence and power to you,just with the hope that one day he will return or
   that you may one day take his place!What does this means?
   Then take the portal once again to get back to the Planar Sphere.Now you get to see a video with
   Lord AO and Melanthium talking and Lord AO vanishing Melanthium once and for all.Now it is time
   for rewards!First you get rewarded my Mystra witch is back now thanks to you and Lord AO.
   Then you get rewarded by the Lady of Pain.Then she sees that you have some of Melanthium power and
   essence and gets angry.She demands explanations and gets ready to fight you.Talk to her to avoid 
   her rage and she warns you that she will be watching you!You also get one of her knives (a two
   handed sword for you a knife to her...) whitch is great sword but might cause the game crush when
   it is used.
   Also you get a new skill,the Sorcery.This is Melanthium's gift to you for beating him.When you use
   it you do some casting for some time (prety long) and then you cause a massive spell with great
   damage (100hp) to every enemy around you.Use it with care.

That is all.This is a great mode,very well made and with a lote of gameplay and tactics.
I must give my congratulations to the creator of this mod and thank him for his contribution to the
world community of Baldur's Gate.

Theodor from Greece